- [Instructor] Another fantastic code recipe
we can implement with GitHub actions
is a build and deploy of a Docker image
from a Spring Boot jar to AWS ECR.
This is the Amazon Elastic Container Registry.
In this video, we're only going to focus
on the GitHub actions necessary
for pushing a Docker image to AWS Docker repository.
So let's go ahead and open up IntelliJ,
and we're using the same project source code
we did from the previous video.
The lab files for this video, if you need to check,
the begin and end state are located 04_05_begin and n.
First, let's go ahead and switch to the main branch,
we'll type git switch main,
okay, I'm already there.
Clear this and then we're going to
create a new branch called Docker workflow AWS.
In the previous video, we merged the WAR workflow
AWS branch with the main and dthat branch now has a number
of changes used for building a WAR.
We're going to clean that up in this video
but first let's go ahead and create our Docker
branch we'll type git checkout -b docker_workflow_aws.
So now we've created the branch
and switched to it in one go,
we're going to go ahead and push these changes.
New branch to GitHub, we'll type git push -u
origin docker_workflow_aws, hit enter.
Now we're going to go
through real quick and clean up this file.
We're going to start with SpringBootApplication.
I'm going to remove code here that was used for a WAR.
Save that one.
I'm going to go down to our bill.gradle.
Going to take out the bootWar and the id war.
Going to scroll down here to provided
and we're going to delete it.
Save that.
We're going to go to our resources
to application properties, and we're going to take
out this server.servlet.contextPath.
Save that.
Okay, let's go back now to our GitHub workflow, open this
up and we want to basically locate the beanstalk deploy
for jar action.
And we're going to remove that entire section.
We're going to replace this
with an action found over in the GitHub marketplace.
If we scroll down the page, you'll see the usages section.
We're going to copy
from this part where it says uses all the way to create.
We'll copy that.
And we're going to go back
to IntelliJand we're going to paste that in.
Now we need to make sure that our spacing is correct
because the formatting and spacing
if it's not done right, GitHub will complain
and none of the builds will work.
We'll fix these real quick.
There's a couple of things that we need to pay attention
to in this new workflow, the first being the region,
we're going to change the region to the region we're using.
I'm using US-east-2, make sure you change that
to the region that you're using.
The second thing that we have here is the repo.
We're going to change the repo to springboot-docker-image
and you'll notice that it says create repo true.
So it will create this repo in the AWS ECR.
And the last thing we need to pay attention
to is the account ID.
So let's go back to AWS for a moment.
We'll click on the username.
We'll go down to security credentials,
we'll click on account identifiers and copy your account.
Now we're going to go over to GitHub
and we're going to click on settings inside of our repository.
Go down to secrets.
And as you can see, we already have two secrets.
We're going to add a third.
And this secret is going to be the AWS account ID.
Paste that in and click add secret.
If you have not added your AWS access key ID
or your AWS secret access key ID,
you do need to do that and you can locate those keys
within the accounts in AWS, the security manager.
Let's go back now to IntelliJ.
We have everything set up within our workflow.
We're going to go ahead and check our branch again,
gitbranch, we're on the Docker branch.
Let's add the changes, admit the changes,
and now let's push them.
Okay, let's go back to GitHub.
We'll click on the code and we're going to
click pull request, new pool request,
we'll change the compare from main to Docker,
as we're able to merge.
Now, if for some reason it said you could not merge,
you can just go ahead and create the pull request
and then you're going to have to resolve the conflicts.
Click create pull request,
merge the pull request and confirm.
Click on our actions.
You can see that two actions have fired off,
one for the pull request and one for the merge.
Look on the build and we can see that we finished
pushing the Docker image.
We did get an error.
Go ahead and see what the error was.
Okay, so this Docker image already exists.
Let's go ahead and take a look at it.
Look at the container registry.
We have a double deploy way that goes on here.
One with the full request and one with the merge.
And what has happened is one has completed
and published the build while the other is running again.
That's no problem.
If we go back
to the Amazon Container Registry and we can see
that our repository now contains our Docker image.
The final step for you all would be to investigate something
like AWS code pipeline, which listens
for new images and then deploys them to elastic beanstalk.
Now I'm not going to do that
for you today because the code pipeline actually
requires considerable more configuration
and there are charges based on the usage.